Course Code : BCS-111
Link: [BCS-111](https://egyankosh.ac.in/handle/123456789/106446)

Course Title : Computer Basics and PC Software

Assignment Number : BCA (I)/111/Assignment/2024-25

Maximum Marks : 100

This assignment has three questions of 80 marks (each section of a question carries same marks).
Answer all the questions. Rest 20 marks > are for viva voce. You may use illustrations and diagrams to enhance explanations. Please go through the guidelines regarding assignments given in the Programme Guide for the format of presentation. Please give precise answers. The word limit for each part is 200 words.

Question 1: 7×4=28 Marks

(a) What are the functions of various operational units of a computer
    system? What is von Neumann Architecture? How can you relate von Neumann architecture to an actual computer? Explain with the help of an example configuration.

(b) Compare and contrast the characteristics and/or organization of the following: 

    (i) DRAM Vs. SRAM

    (ii) Access time on Magnetic disks Vs. access time on Magnetic tapes

    (iii) Pen Drive Vs. CD-RW

    (iv) ROM Vs. PROM

(c) Convert the following numbers as stated:

    (i) Decimal 64.005125 to binary

    (ii) Decimal 2376 to hexadecimal

    (iii) Character A and Z to ASCII and Unicode Hexadecimal CFE9A to binary

(d) What is an instruction? What are its components? What is the role of
    an instruction in a computer? Explain with the help of an example.
    Where does the instruction reside at the time of execution.

(e) A 2.5 inch diameter disk has 8 platters with each platter having two
    data recording surfaces, each platter on disk has 4084 tracks, each
    track has 400 sectors and one sector can store 1 MB of data.
    Calculate the storage capacity of this disk in Bytes. If this disk
    has a seek time of 2 milli-seconds and rotates at the speed of 6000
    rpm, find the Access time for the disk. Make suitable assumptions,
    if any.

(f) What are the uses of various components of motherboard of a
    computer? List at least four output devices and ports to which these
    devices can be connected. Explain the characteristics of these
    output devices and ports.

(g) What are the uses of following software / utility:

    (i) Data Compression Utility

    (ii) Media Player

    (iii) Disk Defragmenter

    (iv) Disk checker


Question 2: 7×4=28 Marks

(a) Why do you need virus detection software? What are their drawbacks?
    What are the techniques to identify a virus? List any 4 latest virus
    for desktop systems.

(b) Consider that you have to run several computer programs
    simultaneously on a computer. Each program takes input from a file
    and output information on a printer. How does different components
    of an Operating system (like memory management, I/O management,
    Process management, file system and user interface) will help in
    execution of these programs.

(c) Explain the differences between procedural programming and object
    oriented programming with the help of one example program of each.

(d) Draw a flow chart of a program that adds N even numbers starting
    from 1. The value of N should be input by the user.

(e) List the elements of a programming language. Explain the terms data
    type, expression, assignment; and logical, relational and equality
    operators with the help of an example each.

(f) What are the phases of project development in which project
    management software can help.

Explain with the help of examples.

(g) Explain the following with the help of an example/diagram, if
    needed:

    (i) Development Model for Open Source Software

    (ii) Tools for program development

    (iii) Use of functions and Macros

    (iv) Database and Database Management System

Question 3: 6×4=24 Marks

(a) Explain the characteristics of any two guided and any two unguided
    channels for data transmission.

(b) Four branch offices of an organisation are located in four major
    cities of a vast country. Explain the characteristics of the network
    that will be needed for every branch office. All the four branch
    offices network should also be connected by another network. Explain
    the characteristics of this network also.

(c) What is Internet? What are the major protocols used on Internet?
    What is an IP address? How can an IP address be related to a web
    address? Explain with the help of an example.

(d) What are the different features of a browser? If you want to perform
    Online Banking Transactions, what precautions will you take before
    performing a transaction?

(e) Describe the process of creating a web email account. What are the
    different components of a mail message? Explain with the help of a
    diagram.

(f) Explain the following in the context of Internet and its
    applications, giving their features and uses:

    (i) Online Education

    (ii) eCommerce

7
